>> Brian Holt: This was
depth first traversal.
They were kinda variations on
the idea of depth first traversal.
But something that you wanna keep
in mind with depth first traversal
is what you're trying to do is
you're actually trying to get
as far away from the root node as
possible as quickly as possible.
You're trying to process nodes
more towards the leaves.
When I say a leaf I mean, something like
down here at the bottom of the array.
Something that has no children at all.
That's what depth first
traversal really excels at is
getting as to leaves first getting
away from the root node as possible.
Getting away from the root
node as fast as possible.
That's not always how you want
to process a tree, though.
Sometimes you wanna process
the nodes closest to the root
as quickly as possible.
So that's when we enter into something
called breadth first traversal.
So in this particular case what we
wanna do is we wanna process 8,
and then we wanna process 3, and then 10.
So we wanna be processing things,
almost like one layer at a time.
We wanna be processing things
closer to the root node.
And depends on what kinda problem
we're trying to solve that we'll
choose different algorithms, but that's
the tradeoff that we'd be making there.
Depth first as like I wanna get away
from the root node, breadth first,
I wanna stay close to the root node.
>> Brian Holt: So
if we're going down here, yeah,
let's actually talk about what
order we would get out of breadth
first traversal in this BFC.
Again, typically you would not use breadth
first on a BFC, that's doesn't really
make a ton of sense but to illustrate
what's going on here, let's talk about it.
So if I was gonna process this tree
using breadth first traversal,
the order I would get out of it would
be 8, 3 10, 1, 6, 14, 4, 7, 13.
You just go one layer at
a time left to right.
Make sense?
So conceptually I think that makes sense.
The actual implementation
of it is interesting.
We'll go with that.
We're gonna use our old friend
the queue if you don't remember queues,
again, that's talked about in part one but
to give you the short version of a queu,
it's like a que for those of you that
are [LAUGH] British and a line for
the rest of us that are in the US.
First in, first out.
So if I enter the line first to
go on the ride at Disneyland,
I'm gonna hopefully be
the first person on the ride.
That's kinda the same idea here is
when you put things in the queue,
the longer that it's been in there,
the more towards the front that it's
gonna get until eventually in the first
in the line, and then it would go.
That's what a queue is.
What you're going to do when
you're processing something using
breadth first traversal is you're
going to add eight into the queue.
Then what you're gonna pop the first
thing dequeue, I say papa.
Well, let's go with dequeue.
You're gonna dequeue first thing
off at the queue and process it.
Then you're going to add its left
child and right child to the queue.
And that's what you're
going to keep doing.
Is you're gonna just take
something off the queue,
add the left child, add the right child
to the queue, and then process the node.
So I'm gonna add eight.
I'll process that.
And I'll add 3 and 10 in there.
Then I'll go down to 3, cuz I'll
dequeue the next one which will be 3.
i'm gonna add 1 and
6 to the queue, process 3.
And then at that point,
I'm gonna dequeue the next thing.
What is the next thing in the queue?
10, right?
Because I queued that up here.
So I'm gonna go down over here to 10,
I'm gonna process 10 and then I'm going to
unqueue its left and right child, it has
no left child, but it has a right child.
So I'm gonna unqueue 14.
Then I'm going to dequeue
the next thing in the queue so
what's the next thing I'm gonna process?
1, because I unqueue that over here at 3.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: So
will you just clarify the order of
adding to a queue, dequeuing and
processing again, what?
>> Brian Holt: I'm probably mixing it up
cuz it really doesn't matter.
[LAUGH] So as opposed to the depth
first and which is probably where
this is getting a little muddy,
that's my fault, I'm sorry.
It doesn't actually really matter because
you're gonna be processing something, and
then you're gonna be enqueueing
both of its children.
And then you'll just go
into the next iteration.
And what order that happens in
your particular function doesn't
particularly matter.
Is that a sufficiently vague answer?
[LAUGH] Yeah, hopefully that makes sense
once you actually start writing the code.
But at some point,
you need to process the node.
And then you need to add
the two children to the queue.
What order you choose to do that
in should not particularly matter.
And that's a great question.
Thank you.
You can write this recursively.
It's somewhat makes sense to write
recursively if you like to do that.
It's also fairly easy to write
just using a while loop.
So you just have a wild look
that just goes through.
And while there's things in the queue, you
just process the next thing in the queue.
And that's another easy way to do it,
as well.
I will show you both, so
you are welcome to go and
write it either way that
makes sense to you.